README.rst, before:

PANDA: A Newsroom Data Appliance
================================

PANDA wants to be your newsroom data appliance. It provides a place for you to store data, search it, and share it with the rest of your newsroom.

Take the `PANDA Future Users Survey <http://bit.ly/pandasurvey>`_.

Feature list and much more on `the PANDA Project Wiki <https://github.com/pandaproject/panda/wiki>`_.

Local development & testing
---------------------------

**Install basic requirements**:

* pip
* virtualenv
* virtualenvwrapper
* PostgreSQL

**Setup PANDA**

This will setup the complete application, *except* for Solr::

    git clone git://github.com/pandaproject/panda.git
    cd panda
    mkvirtualenv --no-site-packages panda
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Enter "panda" when prompted for password
    createuser -d -R -S -P panda
    createdb -O panda panda
    python manage.py syncdb --noinput

    # Start the task queue
    python manage.py celeryd

    # Open another terminal
    workon panda
    python manage.py runserver

**Setup Solr**

This part is tricky and will vary quite a bit depending on your operating system. The following instructions will get you up and running on OSX Lion, using `Homebrew <https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew>`_::

    # Homebrew's recipe installs 3.3, but we need 3.4...
    # When your text editor pops up find and replace "3.3.0" with "3.4.0", save, and close.
    brew edit solr

    # Install solr
    brew install solr

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    # This command will install all panda configuration
    fab local_reset_solr

**Running unit tests**

To run the unit tests ensure that runserver and celeryd are **not** running then start Solr and execute the test runner, like so::

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    fab local_solr

    # Open another terminal
    workon panda
    python manage.py test redd

Production deployment
---------------------

Get hold of an Ubuntu 11.10 server--an EC2 small based off of ami-a7f539ce works well. SSH into your server and run::

    wget https://raw.github.com/pandaproject/panda/master/setup_panda.sh
    sudo bash setup_panda.sh

Your new PANDA server should now be serving on port 80. (Ensure port 80 is open in your security group.)

AUTHORS
-------

The PANDA board:

* Brian Boyer
* Joe Germuska
* Ryan Pitts

Lead Developer:

* Christopher Groskopf

Contributors:

* Your name here

LICENSE
-------

MIT.

Commit message:

update to reflect that brew now has Solr 3.4.0 as its base

README.rst, after:

PANDA: A Newsroom Data Appliance
================================

PANDA wants to be your newsroom data appliance. It provides a place for you to store data, search it, and share it with the rest of your newsroom.

Take the `PANDA Future Users Survey <http://bit.ly/pandasurvey>`_.

Feature list and much more on `the PANDA Project Wiki <https://github.com/pandaproject/panda/wiki>`_.

Local development & testing
---------------------------

**Install basic requirements**:

* pip
* virtualenv
* virtualenvwrapper
* PostgreSQL

**Setup PANDA**

This will setup the complete application, *except* for Solr::

    git clone git://github.com/pandaproject/panda.git
    cd panda
    mkvirtualenv --no-site-packages panda
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Enter "panda" when prompted for password
    createuser -d -R -S -P panda
    createdb -O panda panda
    python manage.py syncdb --noinput

    # Start the task queue
    python manage.py celeryd

    # Open another terminal
    workon panda
    python manage.py runserver

**Setup Solr**

This part is tricky and will vary quite a bit depending on your operating system. The following instructions will get you up and running on OSX Lion, using `Homebrew <https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew>`_::

    # In early development of PANDA, Brew installed an older version of Solr. Verify that you have the right version.
    # 
    brew info solr

    # If the first line reads solr 3.4.0, you are fine. If not, update brew and check again.
    brew update

    # Install solr
    brew install solr

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    # This command will install all panda configuration
    fab local_reset_solr

**Running unit tests**

To run the unit tests ensure that runserver and celeryd are **not** running then start Solr and execute the test runner, like so::

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    fab local_solr

    # Open another terminal
    workon panda
    python manage.py test redd

Production deployment
---------------------

Get hold of an Ubuntu 11.10 server--an EC2 small based off of ami-a7f539ce works well. SSH into your server and run::

    wget https://raw.github.com/pandaproject/panda/master/setup_panda.sh
    sudo bash setup_panda.sh

Your new PANDA server should now be serving on port 80. (Ensure port 80 is open in your security group.)

AUTHORS
-------

The PANDA board:

* Brian Boyer
* Joe Germuska
* Ryan Pitts

Lead Developer:

* Christopher Groskopf

Contributors:

* Your name here

LICENSE
-------

MIT.
