docs/local_development.rst, before:

===========================
Local development & testing
===========================

Install basic requirements
==========================

Use the tools appropriate to your operating system to install the following packages. For OSX you can use `Homebrew <https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew>`_. For Ubuntu you can use Apt.

* pip
* virtualenv
* virtualenvwrapper
* PostgreSQL
* Mercurial (hg)

Set up PANDA
============

This script will setup the complete application, *except* for Solr. Be sure to read the comments, as some steps require opening additional terminals:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Get source and requirements
    git clone git://github.com/pandaproject/panda.git
    cd panda
    mkvirtualenv --no-site-packages panda
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Create log directory
    sudo mkdir /var/log/panda
    sudo chown $USER /var/log/panda

    # Create data directories
    mkdir /tmp/panda
    mkdir /tmp/panda_exports

    # Enter "panda" when prompted for password
    createuser -d -R -S -P panda
    createdb -O panda panda
    python manage.py syncdb --noinput
    python manage.py migrate --noinput
    python manage.py loaddata panda/fixtures/init_panda.json
    python manage.py loaddata panda/fixtures/test_users.json

    # Start PANDA
    python manage.py runserver

Open a new terminal in the PANDA directory and enter:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Start the task queue 
    workon panda
    python manage.py celeryd

Open *another* terminal in the PANDA directory and enter:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Run a local email server
    workon panda
    fab local_email

Set up Solr
===========

Installing Solr can be tricky and will vary quite a bit depending on your operating system. The following will get you up and running on OSX Lion, using `Homebrew <https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew>`_. If you've just started the PANDA server, open a new terminal in the PANDA directory and enter these commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Get into the env
    workon panda

    # Update brew
    brew update
    brew install git

    # Install solr 3.4.0 (hacky, but it works)
    cd /usr/local/Cellar/
    git checkout da53d68 /usr/local/Library/Formula/solr.rb
    brew install solr
    git reset --hard

    # Create Solr home directory
    sudo mkdir /var/solr
    sudo chown $USER /var/solr

    # Jump back to the directory where you installed PANDA
    cd ~/src/panda

    # This command will install all Solr configuration
    fab local_reset_solr

    # To start Solr
    fab local_solr

Checking your PANDA
===================

Your PANDA should now be running at::

    http://localhost:8000/

A PANDA installed locally will not run through the normal setup mode procudure. Instead, two default users will be created.

You can login using the default user credentials::

    Username: user@pandaproject.net
    Password: user

Or the default administrator credentials::

    Username: panda@pandaproject.net
    Password: panda

Running Python unit tests
=========================

To run the unit tests, start Solr and execute the test runner, like so:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    # You may need to customize the fabfile so it can find your Solr installation.
    fab local_solr

    # Quite a bit of output will be printed to the screen. 
    # Wait until you see something like
    # 2011-11-02 14:15:54.061:INFO::Started SocketConnector@0.0.0.0:8983
    # Then, open another terminal and change to your PANDA source directory.
    workon panda
    python manage.py test panda

Running Javascript unit tests
=============================

Running the Javascript unit tests requires that the application server is running (to render the the JST template map). To run the Javascript tests, first start the test server with ``python manage.py runserver``, then open the file ``client/static/js/SpecRunner.html`` in your browser (e.g. ``file://localhost/Users/onyxfish/src/panda/client/static/js/SpecRunner.html``.

Commit message:

Update local development script to not use brew.

docs/local_development.rst, after:

===========================
Local development & testing
===========================

Install basic requirements
==========================

Use the tools appropriate to your operating system to install the following packages. For OSX you can use `Homebrew <https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew>`_. For Ubuntu you can use Apt.

* pip
* virtualenv
* virtualenvwrapper
* PostgreSQL
* Mercurial (hg)

Set up PANDA
============

This script will setup the complete application, *except* for Solr. Be sure to read the comments, as some steps require opening additional terminals:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Get source and requirements
    git clone git://github.com/pandaproject/panda.git
    cd panda
    mkvirtualenv --no-site-packages panda
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Create log directory
    sudo mkdir /var/log/panda
    sudo chown $USER /var/log/panda

    # Create data directories
    mkdir /tmp/panda
    mkdir /tmp/panda_exports

    # Enter "panda" when prompted for password
    createuser -d -R -S -P panda
    createdb -O panda panda
    python manage.py syncdb --noinput
    python manage.py migrate --noinput
    python manage.py loaddata panda/fixtures/init_panda.json
    python manage.py loaddata panda/fixtures/test_users.json

    # Start PANDA
    python manage.py runserver

Open a new terminal in the PANDA directory and enter:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Start the task queue 
    workon panda
    python manage.py celeryd

Open *another* terminal in the PANDA directory and enter:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Run a local email server
    workon panda
    fab local_email

Set up Solr
===========

Installing Solr can be tricky and will vary quite a bit depending on your operating system. The following will get you up and running on OSX Lion (and probably other versions). If you've just started the PANDA server, open a new terminal in the PANDA directory and enter these commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Get into the env
    workon panda

    # Fetch the Solr 3.4.0 binaries
    curl http://archive.apache.org/dist/lucene/solr/3.4.0/apache-solr-3.4.0.tgz -o apache-solr-3.4.0.tgz
    tar -zxf apache-solr-3.4.0.tgz
    rm apache-solr-3.4.0.tgz

    # Create Solr home directory
    sudo mkdir /var/solr
    sudo chown $USER /var/solr

    # Jump back to the directory where you installed PANDA
    cd ~/src/panda

    # This command will install all Solr configuration
    fab local_reset_solr

    # To start Solr
    fab local_solr

Checking your PANDA
===================

Your PANDA should now be running at::

    http://localhost:8000/

A PANDA installed locally will not run through the normal setup mode procudure. Instead, two default users will be created.

You can login using the default user credentials::

    Username: user@pandaproject.net
    Password: user

Or the default administrator credentials::

    Username: panda@pandaproject.net
    Password: panda

Running Python unit tests
=========================

To run the unit tests, start Solr and execute the test runner, like so:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Ensure you are in the PANDA source directory and your virtualenv is active
    # You may need to customize the fabfile so it can find your Solr installation.
    fab local_solr

    # Quite a bit of output will be printed to the screen. 
    # Wait until you see something like
    # 2011-11-02 14:15:54.061:INFO::Started SocketConnector@0.0.0.0:8983
    # Then, open another terminal and change to your PANDA source directory.
    workon panda
    python manage.py test panda

Running Javascript unit tests
=============================

Running the Javascript unit tests requires that the application server is running (to render the the JST template map). To run the Javascript tests, first start the test server with ``python manage.py runserver``, then open the file ``client/static/js/SpecRunner.html`` in your browser (e.g. ``file://localhost/Users/onyxfish/src/panda/client/static/js/SpecRunner.html``.
